Most popular programming languages

1. Java 
Java uses a compiler, and is an object-oriented language.
Programs written in Java can run on many different computer architectures and operating systems. 
 Strengths: WORA, popularity
 Weaknesses: Slower than natively compiled languages 

2. C
C is a compiled, procedural language.
C programs must be specifically compiled for computers with different architectures and operating systems.
It is widely used for system programming, writing other programming languages, and in embedded systems. 
 Strengths: Speed
 Weaknesses: Memory management can be difficult to master 

3. C++
C++ is a compiled, multi-paradigm language.
It attempts to be backwards-compatible with C and brings object-orientation.
C++ is used to create a wide array of applications from games to office suites.
 Strengths: Speed
 Weaknesses: C++ is older and considered more clumsy than newer object-oriented languages such as Java or C#.

4. PHP
PHP uses a run-time interpreter, and is a multi-paradigm language.
PHP is the most popular language used to write web applications.
 Strengths: Web programming, good documentation 
 Weaknesses: Inconsistent syntax, too many ways to do the same thing, a history of bizarre security decisions 

5. VB ( or Visual Basic ) Visual Basic is an interpreted, multi-paradigm language.
Visual Basic is a good language for scripting Windows applications that do not need the power and speed of C#.
 Strengths: None.
 Weaknesses: Only runs in Windows 

6. Python 
Python is an interpreted, multi-paradigm programming language.
Python is used as the main programming choice of both Google and Ubuntu. 
 Strengths: Excellent readability and overall philosophy 
 Weaknesses: None 

7 C# 
C# is a compiled, object-oriented language.
It is an open specification, but rarely seen on any non-Windows platform.
C# was conceived as Microsoft's premium language in its .NET Framework.
It is very similar to Java in both syntax and nature. 
 Strengths: Powerful and pretty fast 
 Weaknesses: Only really suitable for Windows 

8. JavaScript
JavaScript is an interpreted, multi-paradigm language.
It has nothing whatsoever to do with Java.
It is basically a language meant to script behaviors in web browsers.
 Strengths: it's the only reliable way to do client-side web programming 
 Weaknesses: it's only really useful in a web browser 

9. Perl
Perl is an interpreted, multi-paradigm language.
Perl is perhaps still the best language for text processing and system administration scripting.
 Strengths: text processing and system administration 
 Weaknesses: strange syntax, and perhaps too many ways to do the same thing 

10. Ruby
Ruby is an interpreted, object-oriented language
It is one of the most object-oriented languages in the world.
Everything is an object in Ruby, even letters and numbers can have method calls.
 Strengths: Perhaps the world's most object-oriented language 
 Weaknesses: its superior object model comes at a price... namely speed 
